Drama texts refer to the mode of fiction represented in the performance of a play in a theater, on radio or on television. Drama is viewed as a genre of poetry, with the dramatic mode being contrasted with the epic and the lyrical modes ever since Aristotle's Poetics (335 BC). The term "drama" itself derives from the Greek word meaning "action”. In the English language the word "play" or "game" was a standard term used to describe drama until William Shakespeare's time. The enactment of drama in a theater, performed by actors on a stage before an audience is often combined with music and dance. In opera, the drama is generally sung throughout, whilst in musicals it includes both spoken dialogue and songs.
Collections of American literature are anthologies that have been compiled in order to demonstrate the works of a number of American authors. During the 19th century there was a blossoming of US literature, including writers, poets and works such as: Nathaniel Hawthorne, The Scarlet Letter; Herman Melville, Moby-Dick and Billy Budd; Walt Whitman and Emily Dickinson; Mark Twain (Samuel Langhorne Clemens) Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer; Henry James, The Portrait of a Lady; and Edith Wharton, Stephen Crane, Theodore Dreiser, and Jack London.
In historical fiction the plot is set in the past, and pays attention to the manners, social conditions and other details of the period portrayed. Some authors choose to include famous historical figures in their fictional plots, so that audiences can imagine how those individuals might have responded to the plots and environments established by the author. The Western literary component of this genre is founded in the early 19th century works of such authors as Sir Walter Scott, Honoré de Balzac, James Fenimore Cooper, and Leo Tolstoy.
Leopold Classic Library has the goal of making available to readers the classic books that have been out of print for decades. While these books may have occasional imperfections, we consider that only hand checking of every page ensures readable content without poor picture quality, blurred or missing text etc. That's why we:

Happy reading!
